So you mentioned building blocks. Uh, you didn't mention the word God,
um, or sort of the afterlife are those essential to the myth.
So there's a contact experience.
Is there some other aspects of myth and religion which makes them
viral,
which makes them spread and captivate the imagination of people?
Yes. Is there a pattern to them?
I think that for each era it's different and people have first,
let's talk about the definition of religion if that's okay.
Because most people assume the definitions that we in the
West are familiar with, which is that, you know, that of Christianity, Islam,
um, Judaism, you know, monotheistic religions. And there are,
that's not, I mean, those are just some religions.
There are so many different types of religions.
Some religions have no God at all. Uh, Zen Buddhism for example,
is a religion that asks you to take away your belief
structures. Like to kind of like in fact,
I would call that a content type religion, right. And that it's,
it's basically telling you to get rid of your concept concepts of what you think
about things so that you can actually have the experience like you were talking
about earlier of the thing in itself. And they call that Satori.
So there are people who believe, you know, they try to,
they call it meditation, Zen meditation. Um,
and it's fairly radical actually. I'm in some monasteries,
I don't know if they still do this,
but they'll whack you on the head if you appear to be, um,
not focusing and you know, that kind of thing, you know, they do things to,
to basically take you away from your conceptions of reality
and bring you into a state of all that is,
which is what they call Satori. And that has nothing to do with God.
I like this religion and anything that involves sticks and whacking in order for
you to focus better, I'm going to have to join a monastery. So, okay. So,
so w uh, digging into definitions, religion. So like, what is,
what do you think is the scope that defines a religion?
Oh, okay. So in my field, we have a few different definitions of religion,
as you can imagine,
just like philosophers have different definitions of what is real. Um,
so I take this definition and it comes from John Livingston and it's, um,
religion is that set of beliefs and practices. Um,
that determine that is inspired by a transformative,
what is perceived actually to be a transformative and sacred power.
Can you say that again? Yeah. So religion is a set of, it's not just belief,
it's also practices,
it's both belief and practices because you won't have the practices without the
belief. So you have those together. Okay.
And it's inspired by what is perceived,
because we don't know if it's real or not.
What is perceived to be of sacred and transforming power.
So perceived by the followers,
or is this connected to the original sort of experience?
No, no. Well, it's, it's perceived by the followers.
That's a really good definition. So,
and that's the governing idea is that there's something of great power
perceived to be of great power to which you can connect yourself
either emotionally or intellectually somehow in order to explore the world that
is beyond your own capabilities. Yes.
And is there communication also involved or, yeah. Yeah.
That's a great definition. Okay. So within that falls,
everything that we've talked about so far, including technology and,
um, alien life and so on.